JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
America's financial boost.
U.S. incomes rise for the first
time in almost
a decade, as poverty rates drop.
GWEN IFILL: Also ahead this
Tuesday:
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
What sets Hillary apart is that,
through it
all, she just keeps on going.
GWEN IFILL: President Obama
campaigns for
a recovering Hillary Clinton,
while Donald
Trump faces new questions over
his foundation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Then: a farm in
Italy run by
migrants that's missing a key
ingredient,
the migrants.
Malcolm Brabant reports on where
public money
for the refugee crisis is going.
GWEN IFILL: And we continue our
Rethinking
College series with a spotlight
on Latino
men and why so many are missing
from higher
education's classrooms.
ANTONIO SALMERO, College
Student: There's
this sense of machismo in
Mexican cultural.
And machismo is the belief that
being a man
is providing for your family.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: Hillary Clinton is
still on the
sick list tonight, but she's
gotten a political
shot in the arm.
It came today from the man she
once battled
for the presidency, and now
hopes to succeed
in the White House.
He's the biggest surrogate an
ailing Hillary
Clinton could have called on, at
a moment
the candidate needed it most.
In Philadelphia today, President
Obama offered
a rousing defense of his former
secretary
of state.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
She's been accused of everything
you can imagine
and has been subjected to more
scrutiny, and
what I believe is more unfair
criticism, than
anybody out here.
We take for granted sometimes
what is steady
and true.
And Hillary Clinton's steady,
and she is true.
GWEN IFILL: Clinton remained
sidelined with
pneumonia today.
But she called in to CNN last
night to discuss
her collapse on Sunday and the
delay in publicly
acknowledging her illness.
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN: Why not
just say on
Friday, as you said to --
apparently to Senator
Schumer on Sunday, you know, I
have pneumonia,
folks, I'm going to power
through it?
Why keep it a secret?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Well, I just didn't think it was
going to
be that big a deal.
GWEN IFILL: Republican Donald
Trump was on
the road, stopping in Iowa,
ready, he said,
with a plan to ease the
financial burden of
child care.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
We have to start taking care of
each other,
which we're not doing.
Tonight, I'm going to roll out a
plan to help
our mothers and our families get
affordable
quality child care for their
children.
GWEN IFILL: Trump's allies stuck
to a different
topic: condemning Clinton for
putting half
of his supporters into what she
called a basket
of deplorables.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: The
racist, sexist,
homophobic, xenophobic.
GWEN IFILL: Donald Trump Jr.
posted a photo
showing an overflowing Trump
rally, with the
line, "Looks like we are going
to need a bigger
basket."
But Trump and running mate Mike
Pence faced
new pressure for refusing to say
former Ku
Klux Klan leader David Duke is,
to use Clinton's
critique, deplorable.
Pence huddled with House
Republicans at the
U.S. Capitol today.
GOV.
MIKE PENCE (R-IN), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
Donald Trump and I have
denounced David Duke
repeatedly.
We have said that we do not want
his support,
and we do not want support of
people who think
like him, that the simple fact
is that I'm
not in the name-calling
business.
But I'm also not going to
validate the language
that Hillary Clinton used to
describe the
American people.
GWEN IFILL: A campaign official
says Trump
will visit Flint, Michigan,
tomorrow.
He's said he would have
prevented the city's
water crisis if he'd been
president.
Clinton is unlikely to return to
the campaign
trail before Friday, as she
recovers, under
doctor's orders, at home in New
York.
We will be back later in the
program with
a look at questions about Donald
Trump's foundation
and his charitable giving.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news, the
cease-fire in Syria appears to
be holding
for the most part, despite
reports of scattered
violations.
In the ravaged city of Aleppo,
streets and
skies were quiet, and some
people ventured
out.
The U.N. special envoy for Syria
confirmed
the change from Geneva.
STAFFAN DE MISTURA, Special
United Nations
Envoy for Syria: Sources on the
ground, which
do matter, including inside
Aleppo city, said
the situation has dramatically
improved with
no airstrikes.
Comparing the bottom line to
previous days,
there is no doubt a significant
drop in violence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Two groups of aid
trucks were
able to cross today into Syria
from Turkey.
But it's unclear when they will
be allowed
into Aleppo.
GWEN IFILL: Meanwhile, rebels in
Eastern Ukraine
announced a unilateral
cease-fire.
They're backed by Russia, and
it's the first
time they have taken that step.
It came as Ukraine's President
Petro Poroshenko
said Parliament will vote soon
on granting
autonomy to eastern provinces.
The fighting there has killed
more than 9,500
people since 2014.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Former Israeli
President and
Prime Minister Shimon Peres
suffered a stroke
today, and was hospitalized
outside Tel Aviv.
The hospital director said the
93-year-old
suffered extensive bleeding in
the brain,
and is now sedated and breathing
on a respirator.
Peres has held nearly every top
office in
Israel, serving in 12 separate
cabinets.
He won the Nobel Peace Prize in
1994 for negotiating
interim peace accords with the
Palestinians.
GWEN IFILL: The Philippines' new
leader sent
more mixed signals today about
his country's
alliance with the United States.
President Rodrigo Duterte called
yesterday
for American military advisers
to leave the
Southern Philippines.
But, today, he said there would
be no change
in ties, while also rejecting
joint patrols
with the U.S. in the South China
Sea.
RODRIGO DUTERTE, Philippine
President: We
will not join any expedition of
patrolling
the seas.
I will not allow it, because I
do not want
my country to be involved in a
hostile act.
GWEN IFILL: That appeared to
contradict an
agreement for patrols with U.S.
forces reached
last April.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, the governing
body for college sports has put
new pressure
on North Carolina.
Last night, the NCAA said it's
pulling all
championship events out of the
state.
It cited a state law barring
special protections
for transgender people and
others.
A spokesman for Governor Pat
McCrory called
the decision -- quote -- "so
absurd, it's
almost comical."
GWEN IFILL: Easy come, easy go
on Wall Street
today.
Yesterday's gains mostly
evaporated after
oil prices slumped and took the
rest of the
market down.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 258
points to close at 18066.
The Nasdaq fell 56 points, and
the S&P 500
gave up 32.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
why many people aren't feeling
the benefits
of rising incomes; questions
arise around
Donald Trump's charity; an
Italian farm claims
to employ migrants, but
something's missing;
and much more.
GWEN IFILL: This campaign has
often focused
on the question of economic
growth, jobs and
wages, particularly for the
middle class.
Well, today, there was some good
news on that
front, as well as for
lower-income households.
Lisa Desjardins looks at those
latest numbers,
and why so many Americans say
they don't square
with their own experiences.
LISA DESJARDINS: It is a triple
hit of good
economic news.
New census data showed that,
last year, median
income rose 5.2 percent, the
number of Americans
living in poverty shrank by 3.5
million people,
and the percentage of uninsured
Americans
dropped.
President Obama, campaigning for
Hillary Clinton
in Pennsylvania, crowed.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
It's important just to
understand this is
a big deal.
More Americans are working, more
have health
insurance, incomes are rising,
poverty is
falling.
LISA DESJARDINS: But behind each
of these
numbers, there is more going on.
Let's start with paychecks.
That increase is historic, the
largest percentage
jump in at least five decades,
and median
incomes rose for every age
group.
Now, plenty of folks may say,
wait a second,
it definitely doesn't feel like
I got a big
pay raise.
And they have a point.
Median income in America started
plummeting
in 2008.
Then, as we learned today,
median income rose
last year, by $2,800.
The problem?
That is still below what
Americans were making
in 2007.
This economic angst is a driving
force on
the campaign trail.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Inequality is too high, wages
are too low,
it is still too hard for too
many to get ahead.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
But what has happened is, we
have people in
the audience, in 18 years,
they're making
less money now than they made 18
years ago,
in real wages, 18.
And in many cases, they're
working two and
three jobs.
LISA DESJARDINS: The two
candidates have spent
less time focused on another
number out today,
the poverty rate.
It fell, from over 10 percent to
about 9 percent.
That's the biggest drop since at
least the
1960s.
Even so, 43 million Americans
remain in poverty,
and, disproportionately, those
Americans are
blacks, Hispanics and children
of all races.
Now to the third figure out
today: health
insurance.
Obamacare is clearly covering
more people.
Four million more Americans were
covered last
year and more than 90 percent of
all documented
Americans were insured.
But Obamacare raises other
concerns.
A lot of people, 29 million,
still have no
insurance.
For those who are on Obamacare
exchanges,
premiums, out-of-pocket costs,
they are rising.
And their choices are shrinking.
Forecasts estimate that in a
third of all
U.S. counties, the exchange will
offer just
a single insurer to choose from.
So, for Americans, a day of
historic bright
news, but after climbing out of
a long recession
and while grappling with still
unsolved issues
like income inequality, they may
not feel
the sunshine yet.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Recently, Hillary
Clinton has
been criticized for allegedly
giving special
access to Clinton Foundation
donors when she
served as secretary of state.
But now Donald Trump is catching
heat for
how his foundation has
functioned.
I'm joined by David Fahrenthold
of The Washington
Post, who has spent the past few
months digging
into the Republican nominee's
history of charitable
donations and his lack of
personal contributions
to the Trump Foundation.
David Fahrenthold, thank you for
talking with
us.
Tell us first a little bit about
the foundation.
How is it set up?
How is it different from other
foundations?
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD, The
Washington Post: Well,
it's quite a small foundation.
Trump started it in 1987.
And in contrast to other people
who have about
as much money as Trump has, it
doesn't have
very much money in at all.
The most money it ever had was
about $3.3
million in 2009.
The most money it has now is
about $1 million
total.
So, there's no paid staff.
The board of it is just four
Trumps, Donald,
Donald Jr., Eric, and Ivanka,
and one Trump
Organization employee.
They all work with no pay.
They work half-an-hour a week.
The most unusual thing about it
is not just
that it's small, but whose money
is in it.
Donald Trump hasn't put any
money into his
own foundation until 2008.
Instead, he's got other people
to donate.
And then he sort of gives their
money to away
to people who under the
impression that they're
getting Donald Trump's money.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when you say
other people
have put money in, what sort of
people are
we talking about?
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD: Well, a lot
of them don't
want to talk.
But the biggest donation you can
see in tax
filings is from Vince and Linda
McMahon, the
WWE moguls.
Trump was on WrestleMania in
2007.
And in that year and 2009, the
McMahons gave
a total of $5 million.
Now, we know that wasn't Trump's
payment for
WrestleMania.
He got paid separately, but
about the same
time, they made this $5 million
donation.
The other biggest donor has been
this guy
Richard Ebers, who is a sort of
high-end ticket
broker, like tickets to events,
in New York
City.
He gives every year between
$450,000 and $600,000,
always in very odd amounts.
It's never an even amount.
He also didn't want to talk
about why he gives
to the Trump Foundation.
And one of the thing big gifts
has been from
NBC Universal, which televised
"Celebrity
Apprentice."
Trump often used his Trump
Foundation money
to give what he said were
personal gifts out
of his own pocket on the show.
NBC gave him a $500,000 gift,
which served
to cover the cost of all of
those -- quote,
unquote -- "personal donations."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, what about
what the foundation
has given money to?
Is there a pattern, is there a
mission, a
particular cause that Donald
Trump has been
interested in?
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD: Well, that's
really interesting
as well.
A lot of times, you see rich
people who start
their own private foundations,
they are -- as
you said, there is an abiding
cause.
They give to their alma mater,
they give to
cancer research, they give to
something like
that.
With Trump, there is no such
abiding cause
like that.
It's always -- the money is
given out in relatively
small amounts, between $5,000
and $50,000,
and it's to a smattering of
groups.
Often, he's buying a table at a
gala or something
like that.
The biggest correlation you find
is with Trump's
own personal and business
interests.
He lives in Palm Beach part of
the year, where
charity galas are a big part of
the life.
And he runs a club in Palm
Beach, Mar-a-Lago,
that depends a lot on being
rented out by
charities, who can pay as much
as $275,000
per night to rent out his club.
So he gives to those charities
that do business
with him.
And this enables him to sort of
give to those
groups without actually using
his own money.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have also --
you also wrote,
David Fahrenthold, that the
Trump Foundation
at least in once instance,
actually in several
instances, to political causes
or political
candidates.
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD: Well, there's
one case
in particular.
So, giving to a political group
is against
the law.
If you're a nonprofit, you can't
give money
to a political group.
And in 2013, they did that.
They gave to this group called
And Justice
for All, which was a political
campaign committee
helping Florida Attorney General
Pam Bondi,
who at the time just happened to
be considering,
her office was considering,
whether to pursue
an investigation against Trump
University.
They later on, after the money
came in, decided
not to pursue that
investigation.
Trump paid that money out of the
Trump Foundation,
which is against the law.
And this year, after we pointed
it out, he
paid a penalty tax to the IRS of
$2,500, which
was 10 percent of the donation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So they're not
under any legal
cloud at this point?
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD: Well, what's
interesting
is, there is another side to
that gift, which
is, not only did Trump's
foundation make that
prohibited political gift, but
they also sent
filing to the IRS which
contained an error
that served to cover up the
illegal gift that
they made.
Now, they said that error was
inadvertent,
but it was a great coincidence
that the same
year they made a $25,000 gift to
this group
they shouldn't have, they told
the IRS they
had given $25,000 to another
group, which
would have been legal if they
had actually
sent them any money.
That's something the IRS could
investigate.
We don't know if it actually is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, we have to
point out that
the Trump campaign, Mr. Trump
himself, says
he's actually given away
millions of dollars
over the years.
What do we know about that in
any form?
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD: You're right.
He's said over the years that
he's given the
proceeds of a variety of things,
books, TV
shows, to charity, and it adds
up to millions
of dollars.
He said he gives millions of
dollars.
So, what I have done over the
last few months
is go looking for evidence that
those gifts
exist.
I'm not trying the find all of
them.
I'm just trying to find some
evidence that
they're out there.
So, so far, I have called 326
charities.
Now, these are charities that
seem closest
to Trump, people he's given
Trump Foundation
money to, he's gone to their
galas, he's spoken
positively of these charities.
I have called 326 looking for
evidence that
there were these personal gifts
from Trump
out of his pocket.
And between 2008 and this May, I
found just
one gift out of his own pocket.
That was in 2009.
It was for less than $10,000.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when you ask
the campaign
about that, what do they say,
when you have
asked them for evidence of the
giving?
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD: They have
been very slippery
on this.
The last couple of days, they
have said Trump
gives tens of millions of
dollars away, or
he has given tens of millions of
dollars away.
But that answer includes gifts
from the foundation,
gifts of free rounds of golf
from his golf
club to local charities.
They even sort of implied that
it might include
just the salaries that he gives
to his workers,
that he's helping people by
paying them to
do work for him.
So, they haven't broken down how
much Trump
actually gives out of his
pocket, and they
seem to be determined not to do
that.
I have asked for that a number
of times.
And I have gotten no details on
that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I know that
you will
continue to be reporting on
this.
David Fahrenthold of The
Washington Post,
thanks very much.
DAVID FAHRENTHOLD: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
sugar industry's
influence over its link to heart
disease;
Rethinking College to include
more Latino
men; and acclaimed author Ann
Patchett's foray
into something closer to home.
But, first: The European Union
has set aside
nearly $630 million for Italy to
cope with
the thousands of migrants coming
across the
Mediterranean from Africa.
With so much public money
available, opportunities
to profit from the migrant
crisis are substantial,
as, it appears, is the potential
for fraud.
In June, special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant
reported on the Italian mafia's
use of refugee
reception centers in Sicily to
cheat the state
out of more than $4 billion.
The E.U. is now working with the
Italians
to try to end that.
As part of that effort, on the
Italian island
of Sardinia, authorities are now
checking
into a scheme in which unused
and neglected
land was supposedly given to
migrant African
farmers so they could become
self-sufficient.
From Platamona in Northern
Sardinia, Malcolm
Brabant and producer Alessandra
Maggiorani
report.
MALCOLM BRABANT: It's just
before sunrise.
It's the start of the working
week.
And we're heading out to the
land where these
50 or so African farmers are
supposed to be
working.
This is the time of the day when
most farmers
out in the Mediterranean are
starting work
because it's cooler.
They can get more done before
the heat of
the day really kicks in.
We have been told that these
farmers work
from Monday to Thursday, so
let's go and see
if they're there.
In the late summer heat, crops
need attention.
But dawn came in Platamona came
and went with
no sign of activity.
Right, well, it's just after
8:00.
We have been waiting here for
more than an
hour.
And it seems pretty clear that
nobody is going
to turn up.
We're going to go for breakfast
because I
have a feeling it's going to be
a long day.
And then we're going to come
back afterwards
to see if they are here.
And if they're not, we're going
to try and
find them and see what's going
on.
We came back nearly two hours
later.
Nothing.
At this small vineyard next to
the African
workers cooperative supposed
location, we
found a policeman and his father
who didn't
wish to be identified.
MAN (through translator): I live
in Porto
Torres and I go to Sassari for
work, so I
would have seen the migrants.
And the old man you see down
here is my father.
And if he had seen something, he
would have
been alarmed and would have
asked me, what's
going on?
MAN (through translator): I
would have noticed
them.
There's no cultivation going on
there and
no livestock.
MALCOLM BRABANT: At another
vineyard opposite
the farm, we talked to an
agricultural worker
who'd known the owner's family
for decades.
Here, people are wary.
He didn't wish to talk on
camera, but insisted
that there had been no sign of
any migrants
working.
When we started researching this
story, it
was being portrayed by the man
organizing
this cooperative as being a very
positive
story, that the African farmers
who'd come
from war-torn areas wanted to be
able to support
themselves and didn't want to be
reliant on
the state.
But then we got here, and he
stopped taking
our calls.
And it all got a little bit
strange.
We were constantly probing for
more information.
My colleague, Alessandra
Maggiorani, an experienced
freelance journalist and native
Italian speaker
who has worked with the
"NewsHour" on many
occasions.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI, Freelance
Journalist:
I have just spoken with the
president of the
farmers association of this
region.
He was explaining that the
people involved
in this project have asked them
for help to
transfer their know-how, their
knowledge,
and their expertise in
agriculture.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This connection
potentially
added more credibility to the
project.
Once we started asking
questions, though,
the union quickly distanced
itself.
We're outside the offices of the
local farmers
union, and the organization has
made it clear
that they don't want to give us
an on-camera
interview.
But we have spoken to a senior
official who
said that they were approached
about this
project.
They liked it initially.
They liked the fact that food
produced by
the Africans was supposed to be
given to children
at local schools or sold in
local markets.
They wanted to investigate it
further, but
they weren't given any
documentation, and
so they didn't become officially
involved.
We continued looking into the
project and
its partners, landowner Luca
Pintus, and a
leading member of Sardinia's
immigrant community,
Cheikh Diankha, who's from
Senegal and the
head of several organizations
involving integration.
Diankha's company, Janas
International, runs
a reception center for migrants.
And he based himself in one with
a colorful
history.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI: The
reception center
is actually on the premises of
the Kiss Kiss,
a former disco, which had a very
bad reputation.
It was closed down for
prostitution, and more
than 10 people were arrested.
MALCOLM BRABANT: As our phone
calls went unanswered,
we paid a visit to Cheikh
Diankha in his officer
at the former Kiss Kiss disco.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI (through
translator):
I have been trying to get in
touch with you.
I called you many times, and
you're not taking
my calls.
CHEIKH DIANKHA, Janas
International: Ah, OK,
Alessandra.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI: Yes,
MALCOLM BRABANT: I don't
understand.
I just do not understand what's
going on here.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI: OK.
You have to ask permission
before...
MALCOLM BRABANT: Yes, but we
have come all
this way to do a story about
farming, and
you -- and we don't see anything
going on.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI (through
translator):
We came all the way here because
he had an
appointment to go with migrants
out into the
fields.
CHEIKH DIANKHA (through
translator): I didn't
vanish.
I sent you the number of Luca
Pintus.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI (through
translator):
Pintus never replies on that
number.
I don't think the number is
active.
MALCOLM BRABANT: We then tracked
down land
owner, Luca Pintus, at his
mother's cafe in
the main square of Sassari, a
town in Northern
Sardinia.
Pintus tried to assure us that
the project
was above board.
He promised to show us all the
relevant documentation,
as well as the farmers at work.
This street in Sassari yielded
more questions.
We were invited to a smart
address to meet
Luca Pintus, along with a
talented migrant
clothes designer, as well as
another director
of Diankha's company, and to see
paperwork
related to the farm project.
But the only one to turn up was
Diankha's
colleague, Giovanni Rossi, who
said he was
an accountant.
GIOVANNI ROSSI, Accountant
(through translator):
You need to know that only
authorized filming
in allowed in Italy.
So please lower your camera and
wait in a
decent way.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Rossi wanted us
to look at
their fashion work.
We wanted to talk on the record
about the
farm.
GIOVANNI ROSSI (through
translator): I believe
you are smart, so you can listen
to what I
have to say.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI: Let's sit
down and
ask him questions.
GIOVANNI ROSSI (through
translator): Alessandra,
let's sit down
MALCOLM BRABANT: No.
No.
(CROSSTALK)
GIOVANNI ROSSI (through
translator): No, a
written interview.
No, no.
Go out, please.
MALCOLM BRABANT: OK.
OK.
We will go out.
Briefly, I was invited back into
the room.
Where are all the farmers?
We are trying to find the paper
trail for
this project.
And we have come to this office
on the outskirts
of the town of Sassari, where
they often deal
in E.U. projects and funding.
But they say that they have no
record at all
of this particular project,
although they
do say that there are other
organizations
who have money available.
Back at the former Kiss Kiss
disco, a question
for Cheikh Diankha.
So, I'm asking you, is this a
scam?
CHEIKH DIANKHA (through
translator): The cooperative
isn't standing yet.
So how can we have got some
money?
We haven't taken nor received
money from anyone.
This has to be clear.
Don't go to the BBC and tell
them that we
get E.U. money.
We don't even know what the E.U.
is.
We don't have any business with
them.
We have business with the
farmers union in
Sardinia.
And we have yet to receive a
single euro.
The money for the petrol to go
there comes
form our pockets.
Is that clear?
We haven't taken money from the
Italians or
the E.U., and everyone should
hear me on this.
MALCOLM BRABANT: After our
meeting with Rossi,
we came across Luca Pintus in
Sassari's main
square.
LUCA PINTUS, Landowner (through
translator):
Giovanni, I have found the
journalists in
the square.
If you want, I will put her on,
so you can
make an arrangement.
MALCOLM BRABANT: I just want to
ask a simple
question.
When was the last time your land
had farmers
on it?
LUCA PINTUS (through
translator): This morning,
they are picking.
They have to make a gift of it
to the elderly.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI (through
translator):
Do you mean in Platamona?
LUCA PINTUS (through
translator): On the field
in Platamona, 15 days ago.
I'm not sure.
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI (through
translator):
On the basis of these projects,
it is 32 euros
per migrant?
LUCA PINTUS (through
translator): Yes, at
the reception centers.
But I have nothing to do with
the reception
centers.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Pintus was
clarifying that
32 euros a day per migrant
wasn't a subsidy
for the farming project, but a
standard fee
paid by the state to Diankha's
company and
other reception centers.
It's supposed to cover food and
clothing for
the 100 or so migrants at the
former Kiss
Kiss disco.
That's potential income for his
company of
$3,600 a day.
LUCA PINTUS (through
translator): No filming,
no filming.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Or $1.3 million
a year.
According to Luca Pintus, Cheikh
Diankha and
his colleague Giovanni Rossi
plan to open
a new refugee center.
LUCA PINTUS (through
translator): Understand,
I am the director.
You mustn't film.
Put this in your head.
MALCOLM BRABANT: OK, fine.
We're going.
GIOVANNI ROSSI (through
translator): Sorry.
Why are you so incorrect?
ALESSANDRA MAGGIORANI: I'm
saying that he's
finding excuses not to do the
interview.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Yes.
So these farmers, do they exist?
Do the farmers exist?
Luca Pintus insisted he wanted
to fight racism
and to help newcomers integrate
in Sardinia.
Migrants find it hard to leave
the island
because most are barred from
ferries to the
mainland.
While migrants are a moneymaking
opportunity
for some, many Sardinians are
weary of those
selling cheap goods on the
beaches or begging.
But people hawking wares in
supermarket car
parks have little alternative,
because a career
in local agriculture doesn't
appear to be
a realistic option.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Sardinia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Online, Malcolm
offers the
backstory of his peculiar
reporting odyssey.
That's on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
GWEN IFILL: Now: how the sugar
industry paid
experts to downplay health
risks.
Researchers have discovered
documents showing
the industry tried to influence
scientific
studies back in the 1960s.
Early studies had found a link
between sugar
and fat and heart disease, but
it now appears
that the sugar industry paid two
Harvard professors
to point the finger elsewhere.
At the time, it wasn't routine
to disclose
such conflicts.
Marion Nestle wrote an editorial
about the
latest research in "JAMA," "The
Journal of
the American Medical
Association."
She's an author and professor of
nutrition,
food studies, and public health
at New York
University.
Welcome, Marion Nestle.
Let's start by a few...
MARION NESTLE, New York
University: Well,
glad to be here.
GWEN IFILL: Let's start with a
few definitions.
What was the Sugar Research
Foundation?
MARION NESTLE: Well, this was a
trade association
for the growers of sugarcane and
sugar beets.
It's new called the Sugar
Association.
So it's a trade group.
Its job is to promote the sales
of sugar and
to lobby to make sure that
nobody does anything
regulatory to reduce the
consumption of sugar.
It's a trade group.
GWEN IFILL: So, yes.
So, when all the years when we
were being
told that fat and cholesterol
were the prime
culprits in obesity and early
death and heart
disease, it turns out that sugar
also played
a big role.
MARION NESTLE: Well, it did.
If you look at the epidemiology,
at the time,
it was clear that both sugar and
fat were
risk factors for coronary artery
disease.
But these investigators at
Harvard who were
paid by the Sugar Research
Foundation kind
of cherry-picked the data and
minimized the
problems with sugar and
maximized the problems
with saturated fat.
And that was exactly what the
Sugar Association
wanted them to do, as the
documents show.
GWEN IFILL: So, the goal here
was to sway
public opinion, in much the same
way that
the tobacco industry did?
MARION NESTLE: Yes, it followed
the playbook
of the tobacco industry.
The number one playbook rule is,
the first
thing you do is you attack the
science, you
cast doubt on the science.
"Merchants of Doubt," the book
and the movie,
explain all that.
And the Sugar Association was
doing exactly
that.
It was trying to get researchers
to produce
research that would minimize a
role for sugar
and shift the blame elsewhere.
And they were very frank about
what they wanted,
and the investigators agreed
that that was
what they were going to do.
Pretty shocking.
GWEN IFILL: If they could shop
for experts
for something like this, to find
someone at
Harvard who could tell them what
they needed
in order to preserve the
industry, how do
we know that hasn't happened or
maybe it has
happened in other nutrition
areas?
MARION NESTLE: Well, it has
happened.
And The New York Times last year
had a big
investigative report about
Coca-Cola's funding
of thee Global Energy Balance
Network, in
which they had e-mails that
showed that there
were very close associations
between the researchers
who were doing some of this work
and executives
at Coca-Cola.
But it's very hard to get
documentary evidence
of this.
But I do want to say one thing
about it.
It's not a simple matter of
buying investigators.
These Harvard investigators, at
least one
of them, was really pretty
well-known for
his work linking fat to heart
disease risk.
And so he probably believed that
that was
what it was, didn't think that
sugar was nearly
as important, and believed that.
So it wasn't as simple as the
Sugar Research
Foundation just saying, this is
what we want
and we're going to pay for it.
GWEN IFILL: When you say it's
not as simple,
I'm going to ask you a question
that is a
little -- leans towards
simplicity.
What is the smoking gun?
Is it sugar?
Is it fat?
MARION NESTLE: Oh, I think it's
both, because
both of them are nutrients.
And we don't eat nutrients.
Most people don't eat sugar on
its own, and
nobody eats saturated fat on its
own.
We eat foods that contain sugars
and saturated
fats.
Diets are much more complicated
to study than
individual nutrients.
But that's really what everybody
ought to
be looking at.
And dietary guidelines tell you,
reduce consumption
of foods containing a lot of
added sugars,
and don't eat so much meat,
which is a major
source of saturated fat.
So, I say it's both, and you
have to always
take the number of calories into
consideration
when you're talking about these
things.
GWEN IFILL: How skeptical could
consumers
be about these reports, which
every year seem
to tell them to worry about a
different thing?
MARION NESTLE: Well, I think
they should be
very skeptical.
The first line of defense is
always to say,
does this research contradict
what I thought
I knew?
If it does, you want to be a
little skeptical
about it and wait for some more
studies to
come out.
The science is cumulative.
Nutrition science is extremely
difficult to
do, because people are terrible
experimental
animals, and diets are so
complicated.
There are lots of different ways
to put together
healthy diets.
And we know that diets that have
a lot of
vegetables, that balance
calories, and don't
have a lot of junk food are
really good for
health.
We know that.
GWEN IFILL: Marion Nestle, we
know it.
It's a question of paying
attention to it.
Marion Nestle, professor of
nutrition, food
studies and public health at New
York University,
thank you very much.
MARION NESTLE: My pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the second
installment
of our week-long series on ideas
to transform
higher education for students
and provide
new opportunities.
Tonight, Hari Sreenivasan
reports why some
Latino males are being urged to
turn down
a job today in favor of four
years of college
tomorrow.
JUAN LOPEZ, Project MALES: The
series is called
Rethinking College, and it's
part of our weekly
education coverage, Making the
grade.
MAN: If I can have the mentors
on one side
and the mentees on another.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Graduate
student Juan Lopez
wants to bring to college
campuses what he
sees as largely missing, Latino
males.
JUAN LOPEZ: They're not seen as
people who
will succeed, especially
minority males of
color.
I want to go to college.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, on this
day, Lopez and
undergraduates from the
university of Texas
at Austin are mentoring high
school freshman
boys as part of an initiative
called Project
MALES.
JUAN LOPEZ: Undergraduates
mentor high school
students.
Graduate students mentor
undergraduate students.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In this
exercise, college
and high school students move
together over
shared experiences.
JUAN LOPEZ: MD+IT /MD-IT /I want
to help
my family out financially after
I graduate
high school.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One common
concern emerges
for both mentors and mentees.
EMMET CAMPOS, Director, Project
MALES: They're
expected to be the wage earner
in the family.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Emmet Campos
directs Project
MALES' school mentoring
programs.
EMMET CAMPOS: So, their
expectations that
they get from their family and
from their
peers is that their goal is to
get a job,
and to earn an income.
And so those factors are pulling
them away
from actually going to college.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Pablo Hall is
a high school
sophomore and the oldest boy in
his family.
PABLO HALL, High School Student:
I want to
make money after high school, so
that when
my mom gets older, I can put her
in a house,
and my brothers, like, keep them
good.
I just want to help my family
after high school.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Even when
students get to
college, financial obligations
can continue
to haunt them.
ANTONIO SALMERO, College
Student: When I was
doing the two job thing, it was
really hard,
and everybody was excelling on
their tests
and their homework and their
projects, and
I was starting to fall behind.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Antonio
Salmero is a senior
at U.T. Austin.
ANTONIO SALMERO: I felt really
discouraged
even to be in college, but, yes,
the reason
why, because someone's got to
pay bills, somebody
has got to help out at home.
Some of these kids in some of my
classes,
I know, haven't even worked a
day in their
life.
So, that's always very stressful
and discouraging.
JUAN LOPEZ: Our parents are
accustomed to
the traditions of Mexico, of
Latin America,
El Salvador, Guatemala, et
cetera.
And over there, you got to work.
What puts food on the table is
work.
And it's this kind of mental
setback that
is instilled in our Latino males
that makes
them have to choose between an
education and
a job.
ANTONIO SALMERO: Growing up,
there was always
this cultural belief that a
man's worth is
defined by his work.
There's this sense of machismo
in the Mexican
culture.
And machismo is the belief that
being a man
is providing for your family.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the U.S.,
one in four
children are Latino.
Economists project that, within
four years,
two-thirds of all jobs will
require post-secondary
education and training beyond
high school.
Victor Saenz, professor at the
University
of Texas, Austin, founded the
Project MALES
initiative.
VICTOR SAENZ, Project MALES: The
demographic
reality of this country and the
future population
projections suggests that the
current 55 million
Hispanics in this country is
poised to double
in the next 40 to 50 years.
I think our future economic
prosperity is
absolutely linked to the
educational outcomes
for Latino males.
HARI SREENIVASAN: While
Hispanics are the
largest and fastest growing
minority in the
country, they have lowest
educational attainment
of any group.
The high school graduation rate
for Latinos
is 71 percent, but only 15
percent of Latinos
hold bachelor's degrees.
And despite significant
increases in college
enrollment among Hispanics, a
troubling trend
has emerged.
Latino men lag far behind women.
VICTOR SAENZ: The men of color
conversation
nationally has really taken root
and has gained
great momentum.
Project MALES is rooted in this
larger social
justice agenda.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Project MALES
explores the
reasons why so many Latino boys
stop short
of four-year degrees.
VICTOR SAENZ: We see that Latino
boys are
over-represented in the special
education
ranks, over-represented in the
school discipline
pipeline.
And by the time they get to high
school and
college, their numbers have
dwindled to the
point where there's not enough
of them to
really look at student
populations.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Austin High
School principal
Ty Davidson says mentors are
especially important
for first-generation students
considering
college.
TY DAVIDSON, Principal, Austin
High School:
There's somebody there who looks
like you,
may have the same experience as
you, about
anxiety over financial aid, the
anxiety of
maybe moving away from home,
saying, it's
going to be OK.
It's, we're going to do it
together.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Project MALES
mentors spend
a lot of time talking to young
men about the
economic realities of being an
unskilled worker.
EMMET CAMPOS: We show them the
data.
We provide them with information
about degrees
and how they translate into
incomes, into
salaries.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At Gus Garcia
Middle School,
mentors talk dollars and cents.
MAN: So, I just wanted to ask
you all if any
of you all have an idea of how
much the minimum
wage is right now?
STUDENT: Twelve.
MAN: Twelve dollars an hour?
STUDENT: Fifteen.
MAN: Fifteen an hour?
STUDENT: Ten.
MAN: Ten dollars an hour?
So, I guess minimum wage is
probably a little
over $14,000.
Does that sound like a lot of
money?
STUDENT: No, $14,000 is barely
enough to buy
a car.
MAN: You think you could live
off of that?
STUDENT: No.
EMMET CAMPOS: We talk about,
have you thought
of what that car's going to
cost?
Have you thought about what that
house is
going to cost?
PABLO HALL: There are times when
I felt I
want to drop out of school.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Pablo Hall,
who was thinking
of dropping out of high school
as a freshman,
says Project MALES has made a
difference.
PABLO HALL: The mentors, they're
good.
When I need help, they help me
with it.
You can tell the mentors what's
going on.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At the same
time, Antonio
Salmero says mentoring high
school students
helped him when he thought of
leaving college.
ANTONIO SALMERO: I mean, I see
myself pushing
this idea of
self-responsibility, of
self-reliance,
and determination onto myself,
much like I
do want to make them realize
that as well.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The program
hopes some of
its graduate students will
return to college
campus as professors, a career
also largely
underrepresented by Latino men.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan for the
"PBS NewsHour."
GWEN IFILL: Next: an
award-winning novelist
and bookseller draws on her own
life story
for her latest tale.
Jeffrey Brown takes the
"NewsHour" Bookshelf
to Nashville to visit with
writer Ann Patchett.
JEFFREY BROWN: At the East
Nashville Farmers
Market recently, you could
listen to music,
down a cool drink, buy some
vegetables, and,
why not, grab yourself a new
book to read.
ANN PATCHETT, Author,
"Commonwealth": This
is where the people are.
You can get a squash and a book,
a tomato
and a book.
It's great.
JEFFREY BROWN: You could also
meet a famous
local writer, Ann Patchett, who,
since 2011,
is co-owner of Nashville's
Parnassus Books
and its traveling bookmobile.
ANN PATCHETT: So, we got a
little bit of everything.
Lots of kids books, lots of
kids.
Kids love the bus.
JEFFREY BROWN: Kids love the
bus.
ANN PATCHETT: Kids cannot get
enough of the
bus, so the books that are down
low, those
are always really important.
JEFFREY BROWN: You don't even
need, like,
kids' toys or anything to
attract them, huh?
ANN PATCHETT: No, no, no bait.
Books are the bait.
That's our message.
JEFFREY BROWN: Books are the
bait.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: The 52-year-old
bookseller
is herself a bestselling author.
Her novels include the 2001 "Bel
Canto" about
an opera singer taken hostage in
a terror
attack in an unnamed Latin
American country,
and 2011's "State of Wonder,"
centered on
pharmaceutical drug research in
the Amazon.
Now she's done something closer
to home, writing
a novel about a family much like
the one she
herself grew up in, two
families, in fact,
blended together after a chance
encounter
leads to infidelity and divorce.
Her new novel, "Commonwealth,"
follows four
adults and six children through
50 years of
ups and downs.
We spoke in her Nashville home,
not too far
from where she grew up.
ANN PATCHETT: This is a story
that's very
close to home.
This is a story that is very
close to my life
and my family and...
JEFFREY BROWN: It is?
ANN PATCHETT: It is.
JEFFREY BROWN: I wasn't sure.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, tell me,
how is it?
In what ways is it close?
ANN PATCHETT: I was one of two
girls, and
my mother left my father and
married someone
who had two boys and two girls.
And they moved to the other side
of the country.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, this blended
family, geographically
spread out.
ANN PATCHETT: Yes, exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: Parents in
different places.
ANN PATCHETT: Exactly.
Yes.
And I really talked to everyone
in my family
while I was working on this
book.
Is this OK with you?
How do you feel about this?
When I finished, I gave
everybody a copy of
the manuscript.
JEFFREY BROWN: Really?
ANN PATCHETT: We talked about
it.
Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Because you were
nervous about
how they would take it?
Or...
ANN PATCHETT: Because I love and
respect them.
And it's their life too.
And I have always been so
careful to not write
this story.
I have always written "Bel
Canto" instead.
So, when I wanted to write about
someone ripped
out of one family and put into
another family,
I put them in Peru.
But I just said to everybody --
at this point,
I was probably 49 when I started
the book.
And I said, I want to have
access to my life,
which also means having access
to your life.
And are you OK with this?
JEFFREY BROWN: So, this was a
completely different
writing experience for you.
ANN PATCHETT: Totally, totally.
This is the book that I should
have written
when I was 25, instead of 52.
JEFFREY BROWN: One of the
themes, obviously,
is chance, right...
ANN PATCHETT: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: ... is how one
thing leads
to just everything.
ANN PATCHETT: Right.
I don't believe in fate, as in,
which I -- as
a Catholic, I think, sort of
predestination.
But I certainly believe in
chance.
And I do think -- don't you ever
think that?
Like, if I had turned right this
morning,
instead of left, maybe
everything would have
been different?
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
I think we all do.
ANN PATCHETT: Yes, you know, you
miss the
train, but then you meet the
person.
And I think that that's --
that's what the
book is about.
I mean, everybody believes in
chance.
So, there's a lot of chance in
this book.
JEFFREY BROWN: But, as a
novelist, that gave
you a way into, sees what
happens?
Did you know where it was ending
up, or did
you start all this chance
happening and then
see where it might lead?
ANN PATCHETT: No, I always know
where it's
ending up.
JEFFREY BROWN: You do?
ANN PATCHETT: That's the way I
work.
I get it all plotted in my mind,
and then
I write it down.
I mean, sometimes, things change
a little
bit.
But I always say it's like
taking a trip.
I know where I'm going.
And if I don't know where I'm
going, I don't
tend to get anywhere.
JEFFREY BROWN: Another theme in
this book
is time, right, the passage of
time.
ANN PATCHETT: Yes.
Yes.
This book starts out with six
kids, and they're
not great kids.
They have had a lot of upheaval
in their life.
They're irritating.
But then you see them in their
20s, their
30s, their 40s, their 50s, and
they grow on
you.
They grow into themselves.
They become the people they're
meant to be.
And I liked the idea of having
enough time
to really see that.
JEFFREY BROWN: They're also
children who we
see who are kind of --
emotionally, they're
just kind of left on their own.
ANN PATCHETT: Yes.
And I have had a lot of people
say, oh, these
are terrible parents.
And I'm like, they're not
terrible parents.
It was the '60s.
It was the '70s.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
ANN PATCHETT: I mean, my
parents...
JEFFREY BROWN: Go play outside,
right?
ANN PATCHETT: Yes, exactly.
Dig a hole.
And when you're done, fill it up
again.
And I actually think that's
really important
for creativity.
I think, if you want to grow a
novelist, for
that person to have a lot of
boring time trying
to entertain themselves is very
important.
JEFFREY BROWN: Her partnership
in Parnassus
Books came after Patchett saw
Nashville losing
the last of its independent
bookstores and
decided she had no choice but to
enter the
retail business.
ANN PATCHETT: I had no idea.
I really thought that I was
going a good deed.
I thought it was like, the
symphony is going
under, I must save the symphony,
that kind
of thing.
But I actually really love this
store.
And I love being here.
I love telling people what to
read.
It's my favorite thing in the
world, to buy
books and force books on people,
take bad
books away from people, give
them better books.
JEFFREY BROWN: You opened this
around the
time when the whole narrative of
bookstores
was, they're going away.
ANN PATCHETT: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: The narratives of
books, in
fact, were going away.
ANN PATCHETT: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: So what's the
story now?
ANN PATCHETT: Independent
booksellers, independent
bookstores are on the rise
across the country.
JEFFREY BROWN: The ones who've
survived.
ANN PATCHETT: The ones who've
survived, but,
actually, a lot of new ones have
started since
we opened this store.
So, I think that it had bottomed
out, and
then it was going up.
But the other thing is, this is
my hometown.
I knew Nashville.
And I knew that they loved the
bookstore that
they lost.
And Nashville supports
everything local.
They would always rather buy
their coffee
at Fido than at Starbucks.
And so this was a city that was
going to support
and independent bookstore.
And it has.
JEFFREY BROWN: And why do you
think the bookstores
are coming back across the
country?
ANN PATCHETT: Because you can't
spend your
whole life in front of a screen.
And you can't take your family
to anthropology
after dinner.
You need someplace to go and
hang out.
Everybody can come here.
You can come here if you're
lonely and you
want to talk to other people who
loves books.
And you can come here if you're
overwhelmed
and want to be silent and sit
down in a chair
and read a book.
You can bring your kid here for
story time.
You can come here to listen to
your favorite
author.
I mean, it's a community center.
You can come here, spend time
here, not buy
a book here.
This is a beautiful place.
Or you can come here and buy a
book here.
That's good, too.
We love that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Ann Patchett's
latest novel,
"Commonwealth," is now on sale
at her bookstore
and, we hope, one near you.
From Nashville, I'm Jeffrey
Brown for the
"PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that might be
of interest to you, too.
Arizona photographer Mike
Olbinski is a storm
chaser whose time-lapse videos
have been used
in commercials, documentaries
and even feature
films.
MIKE OLBINSKI, Photographer: My
name is Mike
Olbinski.
And I am a professional storm
and wedding
photographer based out of
Phoenix, Arizona.
It's kind of kind of a crazy
profession.
And I got into it mainly because
I have loved
the weather ever since I was a
kid.
And it wasn't until, you know,
early 30s that
I started seeing photos of
lightning, and
I just started getting
interested in it.
My time-lapses are still frames.
So my camera is taking a picture
every second,
every two seconds, every three
seconds, whatever
I'm out there trying to do, and
then those
get kind of put together into a
video.
It kind of goes back to the old
days of animation,
where people used to draw
cartoons on a piece
of paper on like a hundred
pages, and then
flip through it, and you would
get this motion
happening.
I kind of have two chase seasons
in a way.
I chase out on the Plains in the
spring, and
then I live in Phoenix, so then
I just chase
the monsoon all summer.
And, obviously, it's a lot
easier here.
And this is kind of where I
started, because
all I have to do is just drive
40 miles to
get somewhere to shoot a dust
storm, instead
of driving 16 hours to Oklahoma
to shoot a
storm that might not happen.
I think the dust storms are
something that
are kind of unique to us.
Other people get them every now
and then,
but we get them all the time.
The lightning out here is just
-- is probably
better than most places, just
because our
storms are really what they call
high-based,
where the bottom of the storms
are really
up high, so you see a lot more
of the lightning
hitting the ground.
Out on the Plains, these storms
just take
on otherworldly appearances
because they are
rotating as they go upwards.
And a lot of times, that
rotation ends up
turning the storm into looking
like a flying
saucer or the mother ship, as
everybody likes
to say.
I have seen some pretty amazing
storms over
the course of the last seven or
eight years.
The first one was the big dust
storm that
hit Phoenix on July 5, 2011.
I have lived here my whole life,
and I have
never -- I have seen dust storms
all the time,
but I have never seen one like
this.
It just looked like the end of
the world.
A couple years later, in 2013,
we were in
Texas, and we were shooting this
storm in
front of a cornfield that had
been chopped
down.
And then the sun was setting,
and so the whole
sky was orange.
And this supercell was spinning.
It was just sucking up dirt off
the ground.
I just love this, like, solitude
of being
out there, being with nature,
seeing these
amazing storms, and trying to
get the best
footage and photos that I
possibly can.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All I can say is
wow.
GWEN IFILL: Those pictures, the
dust storm
picture of Phoenix, amazing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just -- I have
never seen anything
like it.
GWEN IFILL: I wouldn't want to
be behind the
camera.
OK.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Tonight, PBS
launches a new series
on presidential campaigns.
"The Contenders: 16 for '16"
airs Tuesdays
for the next eight weeks on PBS.
Tonight's episode, "The Straight
Talkers,"
features Senator John McCain's
run in 2000,
and Shirley Chisholm, who, in
1972, was the
first woman and the first
African-American
to seek the Democratic
nomination.
MAN: Four thousand blacks, some
radical, some
conservative, met in Gary,
Indiana, for the
first National Black Political
Convention.
WOMAN: A conference was called
in Gary to
discuss black political power.
Passage of the '65 Voting Rights
Act enabled
a lot of African-Americans to
believe that
they could play a greater role
in national
politics as an organized black
force.
When this conference takes
place, Mrs. Chisholm
decides not to go.
REP.
CHARLES RANGEL (D), New York:
Listen, when
you have enough political
courage to do what
Shirley Chisholm has done, which
I never had
this much of it, I'm not
prepared to give
advice as to what she should
have done.
WOMAN: And Chisholm chose not to
go because,
one, she had already announced
that she was
going to run for president, and
she didn't
feel like catching flak, and she
didn't want
to be there when there was a
vote of non-support
for her.
WOMAN: I went to the Gary,
Indiana, Black
Political Convention, and we
tried to get
an endorsement from the Black
Political Convention
delegates for Shirley Chisholm
for president.
We couldn't even get it there.
I mean, the guys had it so sewed
up.
WOMAN: They could not stand the
fact that
a black woman kind of
leapfrogged over them
and made the decision for
herself to run.
For many, they thought a black
man should
do this first.
MELISSA HARRIS-PERRY, Wake
Forest University:
She sees black men as awful
extremely hostile
to her candidacy.
The bigger part of the joke for
them isn't
that she's an African-American
running, but,
like, she's a girl running.
We're not going to have some
girl president,
right, much less a black girl
president.
GWEN IFILL: "The Contenders"
premieres tonight
on most PBS stations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And as part of
PBS' Spotlight
Education Week, "Frontline"
takes a critical
look at the for-profit college
industry.
"A Subprime Education"
investigates allegations
of fraud and predatory
recruitment practices.
That's also tonight on most PBS
stations.
GWEN IFILL: And that's the
"NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Wednesday, in the first of a
two-part examination
of forced marriage, we look at
the issue among
American women.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.